# MBTI-Personality-Prediction

ABSTRACT:

Personality prediction is an evergreen area of research. Predicting personality with the  help of data through social media is a promising approach as this method does not require any  questionnaires to be filled by users thus reducing time and increasing credibility. Thus, having  knowledge of personality is an interesting domain to work on. Predicting personality has many  applications in the real world. Use of social media is increasing day by day. Huge amounts of  textual data as well as images continue to explode on the web daily. Here we have used a data  set and came up with the best solution. 

MBTI, a personality type system that divides everyone into 16 distinct personalities,  classifies an individual in a particular personality type. The scope of personality computing  has increased significantly. Personality recognition of users is widely used in research  domains like recommendation systems and human-robot interaction. Traditional  recommendation systems come across problems like lack of data about the preferences of  the user, free-riders problem, and the data sparsity problem. The identified user personality  traits help understand users’ preferences, which leads to better recommendations and tackles  the above issues. Another motive for this project is the MBTI’s test-retest reliability, which  hovers around a 0.5 error rate. On retest, people come out with 3-4 type preferences 75%- 90% of the time. Personality classification based on digital data has proved to be an easier  and more efficient alternative to traditional psychological tests. We can look into a far more  significant amount of data with the help of text classification than we can with a single  personality test. Our methodology can assist with more accuracy than currently existing  tests, allowing users to rely on their outcomes.

